OpenID Connect realm guide (#41423)
elastic/elasticsearch: x-pack/docs/en/security/authentication/oidc-guide.asciidoc

The configuration values used in the example above are:

xpack.security.authc.realms.oidc.oidc1::
    This defines a new `oidc` authentication realm named "oidc1".
    See <<realms>> for more explanation of realms.

order::
    You should define a unique order on each realm in your authentication chain.
    It is recommended that the OpenID Connect realm be at the bottom of your authentication
    chain (that is, that it has the _highest_ order).

rp.client_id::
    This, usually opaque, arbitrary string, is the Client Identifier that was assigned to the Elastic Stack RP by the OP upon
    registration.

rp.response_type::
    This is an identifier that controls which OpenID Connect authentication flow this RP supports and also
    which flow this PR requests the OP should follow too. Supported values are
    - `code`, which means that we want to use the Authorization Code flow
    - `id_token token` which means that we want to use the Implicit flow and we also request an oAuth2
       access token from the OP, that we can potentially use for follow up requests ( UserInfo )
    - `id_token` which means that we want to use the Implicit flow, but are not interested in getting

>        an oAuth2 token too.

Author: I made an attempt at it

op.jwkset_path::
    The path to a file containing a JSON Web Key Set with the key material that the OpenID Connect
    Provider uses for signing tokens and claims responses. The path is resolved relative to the {es}
    config directory.
    {es} will automatically monitor this file for changes and will reload the configuration whenever
    it is updated.

claims.principal:: See <<oidc-claims-mapping>>.
claims.groups:: See <<oidc-claims-mapping>>.

A final piece of configuration of the OpenID Connect realm is to set the `Client Secret` that was assigned
to the RP during registration in the OP. This is a secure setting and as such is not defined in the realm
configuration in `elasticsearch.yml` but added to the {ref}/secure-settings.html[elasticsearch keystore].
For instance

[source,sh]
----
bin/elasticsearch-keystore add xpack.security.authc.realms.oidc.oidc1.rp.client_secret
----

NOTE: According to the OpenID Connect specification, the OP should also make their configuration
available at a well known URL, which is the concatenation of their `Issuer` value with the
`.well-known/openid-configuration` string. For example: `https://op.org.com/.well-known/openid-configuration`

> That document should contain all the necessary information to configure the OpenID Connect realm in {es}.

Author: Yes. I added a "The value for this setting should be provided by your OpenID Connect Provider." text to each of the settings above and I think that this, in addition to the NOTE here is enough, but I'm open to suggestions to making this better

> assuming OPs are reliable about implementing this part of the spec

They are. I plan on tackling automatic configuration based on the `issuer` value in one of the next versions.

(such as an LDAP directory) then you can use
<<authorization_realms, authorization realms>> instead of role mappings.

In this case, you perform the following steps:
1. In your OpenID Connect realm, assign a claim to act as the lookup userid,
   by configuring the `claims.principal` setting.
2. Create a new realm that can lookup users from your local repository (e.g. an
   `ldap` realm)
3. In your OpenID Connect realm, set `authorization_realms` to the name of the realm you
   created in step 2.

[[oidc-user-metadata]]
=== User metadata

By default users who authenticate via OpenID Connect will have some additional metadata
fields. These  will include every OpenID Claim that is provided in the authentication response
(regardless of whether it is mapped to an {es} user property), will be added
as the metadata field `oidc(claim_name)` where "claim_name" is the name of the
claim as it was contained in the ID Token or in the User Info response. Note that these will
include all the https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#IDToken[ID Token claims]
that pertain to the authentication event, rather than the user themselves.

> This behaviour can be disabled by adding `populate_user_metadata: false` to as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This behaviour can be disabled by adding `populate_user_metadata: false` as
```

navigate directly to the `/login` page in {kib} in order to use the login form.

`xpack.security.auth.oidc.realm`::
The name of the OpenID Connect realm in {es} that should handle authentication
for this Kibana instance.

`server.xsrf.whitelist`::
{kib} has in-built protection against _Cross Site Request Forgery_ attacks which
are designed to prevent the {kib} server from processing requests that
originated from outside the {kib} application.
In order to support OpenID Connect messages that originate from your
OP or a third party (see <<3rd-party-login>>, we need to explicitly _whitelist_ the
OpenID Connect authentication endpoint within {kib}, so that the {kib} server will
not reject these external messages.

=== OpenID Connect without {kib}

The OpenID Connect realm is designed to allow users to authenticate to {kib} and as
such, most of the parts of the guide above make the assumption that {kib} is used.
This section describes how a custom web application could use the relevant OpenID
Connect REST APIs in order to authenticate the users to {es}, with OpenID Connect.

Single Sign On realms such as OpenID Connect and SAML make use of the Token Service in

> {es} and in principle exchange a SAML or OpenID Connect Authentication response with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{es} and in principle exchange a SAML or OpenID Connect Authentication response for
```

the user can maintain access or be subsequently logged out.

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
POST /_security/role/facilitator-role
{
  "cluster" : ["manage_oidc", "manage_token"]
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
POST /_security/user/facilitator
{
  "password" : "<somePasswordHere>",
  "roles"    : [ "facilitator-role"]
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

==== Handling the authentication flow

On a high level, the custom web application would need to perform the following steps in order to
authenticate a user with OpenID Connect:

. Make an HTTP POST request to `_security/oidc/prepare`, authenticating as the `facilitator` user, using the name of the
OpenID Connect realm in the {es} configuration in the request body. See the
<<security-api-oidc-prepare-authentication,OIDC Prepare Authentication API>> for more details
+
[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
POST /_security/oidc/prepare
{
  "realm" : "oidc1"
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE

> // TEST[skip:These are properly tested in the OpenIDConnectIT suite]

Reviewer: Ideally we wouldn't skip these.
The intent of the docs-snippet testing is not to test the backend functionatlity, but to ensure that the docs content is free of errors, and is kept in sync with the implementation.
When we skip these, we run the risk of the examples being broken (e.g. by changes to the endpoint URL, or the addition of required fields)

Author: Understood. I'll take care of it

Author: I enabled tests for prepare and added `// TESTRESPONSE[catch:X]` for `authetnicate` and `logout` as there is no easy way to test them here. 

In order to get a succesful response from the integTest cluster here, we'd need to use the implicit flow and introduce code to sign the ID Token in a `// TESTSETUP` section so that the cluster can consume it. I don't think it's worth the effort, but I can be swayed

+
. Handle the response to `/_security/oidc/prepare`. The response from {es} will contain 3 parameters:
  `redirect`, `state`, `nonce`. The custom web application would need to store the values for `state`
  and `nonce` in the user's session (client side in a cookie or server side if session information is
   persisted this way) and redirect the user's browser to the URL that will be contained in the
  `redirect` value.
. Handle a subsequent response from the OP. After the user is successfully authenticated with the
  OpenID Connect Provider, they will be redirected back to the callback/redirect URI. Upon receiving
  this HTTP GET request, the custom web app will need to make an HTTP POST request to
  `_security/oidc/authenticate`, again - authenticating as the `facilitator` user passing the URL of

>   the GET request it received as a parameter, along with the values for `nonce` and `state` it had

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  the GET request it received as a parameter in the OP's response, along with the values for `nonce` and `state` it had
```
It's not 100% clear which URL you mean here, and my memory of OIDC is fuzzy. I assume the URL is from the OP.

Author: It is but it is the URL where it redirected the user and not a parameter, I will attempt to make this clear

[role="xpack"]
[[oidc-guide]]

> == Configuring Single Sign On to the {stack} using OpenID Connect

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
== Configuring single sign-on to the {stack} using OpenID Connect
```

> The Elastic Stack supports Single Sign On using OpenID Connect via {kib} using

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Elastic Stack supports single sign-on (SSO) using OpenID Connect via {kib} using
```

{es} as the backend service that holds most of the functionality. {kib} and {es}
together represent an OpenID Connect Relying Party (RP) that supports the Authorization
Code Flow and the Implicit Flow as these are defined in the OpenID Connect specification.

> This guide assumes that you have an OpenID Connect Provider that you use and where the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This guide assumes that you have an OpenID Connect Provider where the
```

NOTE: The OpenID Connect realm support in {kib} is designed with the expectation that it
will be the primary authentication method for the users of that {kib} instance. The
<<oidc-kibana>> section describes what this entails and how you can set it up to support
other realms if necessary.

[[oidc-guide-op]]
=== The OpenID Connect Provider

The OpenID Connect Provider (OP) is the entity in OpenID Connect that is responsible for
authenticating the user and for granting the necessary tokens with the authentication and
user information to be consumed by the Relying Parties.

In order for the Elastic Stack to be able use your OpenID Connect Provider for authentication,
a trust relationship needs to be established between the OP and the RP. In the OpenID Connect
Provider, this means registering the RP as a client. OpenID Connect defines a dynamic client
registration protocol but this is usually geared towards real-time client registration and
not the trust establishment process for cross security domain single sign on. All OPs will
also allow for the manual registration of an RP as a client, via a user interface or (less often)
via the consumption of a metadata document.

> The process for registering the Elastic Stack RP will be different from OP to OP and following

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The process for registering the Elastic Stack RP will be different from OP to OP and
```

> the provider's relevant documentation is prudent. The most usual piece of information for the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the provider's relevant documentation is prudent. The information for the
```

> RP that you need to provide for registration are the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
RP that you commonly need to provide for registration are the following:
```

- `Relying Party Name`: An arbitrary identifier for the relying party. Neither the specification
nor the Elastic Stack implementation impose any constraints on this value.
- `Redirect URI`: This is the URI where the OP will redirect the user's browser after authentication. The
appropriate value for this will depend on your setup and whether or not {kib} sits behind a proxy or

> load balancer, but it will typically be +$\{kibana-url}/api/security/v1/oidc+ where _$\{kibana-url}_

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
load balancer. It will typically be +$\{kibana-url}/api/security/v1/oidc+ where _$\{kibana-url}_
```

is the base URL for your {kib} instance. You might also see this called `Callback URI`.

> At the end of the registration process, the OP will assign aClient Identifier and a Client Secret for the RP ({stack}) to use.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At the end of the registration process, the OP will assign a Client Identifier and a Client Secret for the RP ({stack}) to use.
```

> At the end of the registration process, the OP will assign aClient Identifier and a Client Secret for the RP ({stack}) to use.

Reviewer: I don't know how :octocat: dug up this old comment of mine, but you can ignore it.

Note these two values as they will be used in the {es} configuration.

[[oidc-guide-authentication]]
=== Configure {es} for OpenID Connect authentication

The following is a summary of the configuration steps required in order to enable authentication

> using OpenID Connect in {es}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
using OpenID Connect in {es}:
```

. <<oidc-enable-http,Enable SSL/TLS for HTTP>>
. <<oidc-enable-token,Enable the Token Service>>
. <<oidc-create-realm,Create one or more OpenID Connect realms>>
. <<oidc-role-mapping,Configure role mappings>>

[[oidc-enable-http]]
==== Enable TLS for HTTP

If your {es} cluster is operating in production mode, then you must
configure the HTTP interface to use SSL/TLS before you can enable OpenID Connect
authentication.

For more information, see
{ref}/configuring-tls.html#tls-http[Encrypting HTTP Client Communications].

[[oidc-enable-token]]
==== Enable the token service

The {es} OpenID Connect implementation makes use of the {es} Token Service.  This service
is automatically enabled if you configure TLS on the HTTP interface, and can be
explicitly configured by including the following in your `elasticsearch.yml` file:

[source, yaml]
------------------------------------------------------------
xpack.security.authc.token.enabled: true
------------------------------------------------------------

[[oidc-create-realm]]
==== Create an OpenID Connect realm

OpenID Connect based authentication is enabled by configuring the appropriate realm within

> the authentication chain for {es}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the authentication chain for {es}.
```

This realm has a few mandatory settings, and a number of optional settings.
The available settings are described in detail in the

> {ref}/security-settings.html#ref-oidc-settings[Security settings in {es}], this

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{ref}/security-settings.html#ref-oidc-settings[Security settings in {es}]. This
```

  op.issuer: "https://op.example.org"
  op.jwkset_path: oidc/jwkset.json
  claims.principal: sub
  claims.groups: "http://example.info/claims/groups"
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The configuration values used in the example above are:

xpack.security.authc.realms.oidc.oidc1::
    This defines a new `oidc` authentication realm named "oidc1".
    See <<realms>> for more explanation of realms.

order::
    You should define a unique order on each realm in your authentication chain.
    It is recommended that the OpenID Connect realm be at the bottom of your authentication
    chain (that is, that it has the _highest_ order).

rp.client_id::
    This, usually opaque, arbitrary string, is the Client Identifier that was assigned to the Elastic Stack RP by the OP upon
    registration.

rp.response_type::
    This is an identifier that controls which OpenID Connect authentication flow this RP supports and also
    which flow this RP requests the OP should follow. Supported values are
    - `code`, which means that the RP wants to use the Authorization Code flow. If your OP supports the

>        Authorization Code flow, you should select this in favor of the Implicit Flow.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
       Authorization Code flow, you should select this instead of the Implicit Flow.
```

    {es} will send a request to exchange the code for an ID Token, in the case where the Authorization Code
    flow is used. The value for this setting should be provided by your OpenID Connect Provider.

op.userinfo_endpoint::
    (Optional) The URL for the UserInfo Endpoint in the OpenID Connect Provider. This is the endpoint of the OP that
    can be queried to get further user information, if required. The value for this setting should be provided by your
     OpenID Connect Provider.

op.endsession_endpoint::
    (Optional) The URL to the End Session Endpoint in the OpenID Connect Provider. This is the endpoint where the user's
    browser will be redirected after local logout, if the realm is configured for RP initiated Single Logout and
    the OP supports it. The value for this setting should be provided by your OpenID Connect Provider.

op.jwkset_path::
    The path to a file containing a JSON Web Key Set with the key material that the OpenID Connect
    Provider uses for signing tokens and claims responses. The path is resolved relative to the {es}
    config directory.
    {es} will automatically monitor this file for changes and will reload the configuration whenever

>     it is updated. The value for this setting should be provided by your OpenID Connect Provider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    it is updated. Your OpenID Connect Provider should provide you with this file.
```

claims.principal:: See <<oidc-claims-mapping>>.
claims.groups:: See <<oidc-claims-mapping>>.

A final piece of configuration of the OpenID Connect realm is to set the `Client Secret` that was assigned
to the RP during registration in the OP. This is a secure setting and as such is not defined in the realm
configuration in `elasticsearch.yml` but added to the {ref}/secure-settings.html[elasticsearch keystore].
For instance

[source,sh]
----
bin/elasticsearch-keystore add xpack.security.authc.realms.oidc.oidc1.rp.client_secret
----

NOTE: According to the OpenID Connect specification, the OP should also make their configuration
available at a well known URL, which is the concatenation of their `Issuer` value with the
`.well-known/openid-configuration` string. For example: `https://op.org.com/.well-known/openid-configuration`
That document should contain all the necessary information to configure the OpenID Connect realm in {es}.

[[oidc-claims-mapping]]
==== Claims mapping

> ===== Claims and scopes

Reviewer 2: Is this sub-heading required?  It's a little unusual to have an empty section followed by another heading.

Author: It felt better to differentiate between teh subsections under the same topic, I can see if a paragraph up top makes sense

When authenticating to {kib} using OpenID Connect, the OP will provide information about the user
in the form of OpenID Connect Claims, that can be included either in the ID Token, or be retrieved from the
UserInfo endpoint of the OP. The claim is defined as a piece of information asserted by the OP
for the authenticated user. Simply put, a claim is a name/value pair that contains information about
the user. Related to claims, we also have the notion of OpenID Connect Scopes. Scopes are identifiers
that are used to request access to specific lists of claims. The standard defines a set of scope
identifiers that can be requested. The only mandatory one is `openid`, while commonly used ones are

> `profile` ( requesting access to the `name`,`family_name`,`given_name`,`middle_name`,`nickname`,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`profile` and `email`. The `profile` scope requests access to the `name`,`family_name`,`given_name`,`middle_name`,`nickname`,
```

> `preferred_username`,`profile`,`picture`,`website`,`gender`,`birthdate`,`zoneinfo`,`locale`,`updated_at` claims),

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`preferred_username`,`profile`,`picture`,`website`,`gender`,`birthdate`,`zoneinfo`,`locale`, and `updated_at` claims.
```

> and `email` (requesting access to the `email` and `email_verified` claims). The process is that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `email` scope requests access to the `email` and `email_verified` claims. The process is that
```

> the RP requests specific scopes during the authentication request, and if the OP Privacy Policy

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the RP requests specific scopes during the authentication request. If the OP Privacy Policy
```

allows it and the authenticating user consents to it, the related claims are returned to the

> RP, either in the ID Token, or as a UserInfo response.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
RP (either in the ID Token or as a UserInfo response).
```

> The list of the supported claims will vary depending on the OP you are using, but one should expect

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The list of the supported claims will vary depending on the OP you are using, but you can expect
```

the https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#StandardClaims[Standard Claims] to be
largely supported.

[[oidc-claim-to-property]]
===== Mapping claims to user properties

The goal of claims mapping is to configure {es} in such a way as to be able to map the values of
specified returned claims to one of the <<oidc-user-properties, user properties>> that are supported
by {es}. These user properties are then utilized to identify the user in the {kib} UI or the audit
logs, and can also be used to create <<oidc-role-mapping, role mapping>> rules.

The recommended steps for configuring OpenID Claims mapping are as follows:

. Consult your OP configuration to see what claims it might support. Note that

>   the list provided in the OPs metadata, or in the configuration page of the OP

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  the list provided in the OP's metadata or in the configuration page of the OP
```

>   is a list of potentially supported claims, but for privacy reasons it might

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  is a list of potentially supported claims. However, for privacy reasons it might
```

  not be a complete one, or not all supported claims will be available for all
  authenticated users.

. Read through the list of <<oidc-user-properties, user properties>> that {es}
  supports, and decide which of them are useful to you, and can be provided by
  your OP in the form of claims. At a _minimum_, the `principal` user property
  is required.

. Configure your OP to "release" those claims to your {stack} Relying

>   party. This process greatly varies by provider - some will allow for static

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  party. This process greatly varies by provider. You can use a static
```

>   configuration while others will support that the RP requests the scopes that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  configuration for some providers. Others enable the RP to request that the scopes that
```

>   correspond to the claims to be "released" on authentication time. See

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  that correspond to the claims are "released" at authentication time. See
```

>   {ref}/security-settings.html#ref-oidc-settings[`rp.requested_scopes`] on how

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  {ref}/security-settings.html#ref-oidc-settings[`rp.requested_scopes`] for details on how
```

  to configure the scopes to request. To ensure interoperability and minimize
  the errors, you should only request scopes that the OP supports, and which you
  intend to map to {es} user properties.

. Configure the OpenID Connect realm in {es} to associate the {es} user properties (see
  <<oidc-user-properties, the listing>> below), to the name of the claims that your
  OP will release. In the example above, we have configured the `principal` and
  `groups` user properties as follows:

  .. `claims.principal: sub` : This instructs {es} to look for the OpenID Connect claim named `sub`
     in the ID Token that the OP issued for the user ( or in the UserInfo response ) and assign the
     value of this claim to the `principal` user property. `sub` is a commonly used claim for the
     principal property as it is an identifier of the user in the OP and it is also a required
     claim of the ID Token, thus offering guarantees that it will be available. It is, however,
     only used as an example here, the OP may provide another claim that is a better fit for your needs.

  .. `claims.groups: "http://example.info/claims/groups"` : Similarly, this instructs {es} to look

>      for the claim with the name `http://example.info/claims/groups` (note that this is a URI - an

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     for the specified claim

>      identifier, treated as a string and not a URL pointing to a location that will be retrieved)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

     either in the ID Token or in the UserInfo response, and map the value(s) of it to the user

>      property `groups` in {es}. There is no standard claim in the specification that is used for

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     property `groups` in {es}. Note that in this example, `http://example.info/claims/groups` is a URI -- an
     identifier treated as a string and not a URL pointing to a location that will be retrieved.
```

     expressing roles or group memberships of the authenticated user in the OP, so the name of the
     claim that should be mapped here, will vary greatly between providers. Consult your OP
     documentation for more details.

[[oidc-user-properties]]
===== {es} user properties

The {es} OpenID Connect realm can be configured to map OpenID Connect claims to the
following properties on the authenticated user:

principal:: _(Required)_
    This is the _username_ that will be applied to a user that authenticates
    against this realm.
    The `principal` appears in places such as the {es} audit logs.

NOTE: If the principal property fails to be mapped from a claim, the authentication fails.

groups:: _(Recommended)_
    If you wish to use your OP's concept of groups or roles as the basis for a
    user's {es} privileges, you should map them with this property.

>     The `groups` are passed directly to your <<oidc-role-mapping, role mapping rules>>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The `groups` are passed directly to your <<oidc-role-mapping, role mapping rules>>.
```

would like their principal to simply be `james.wong`.

This can be achieved using the `claim_patterns` setting in the {es}
realm, as demonstrated in the realm configuration below:

[source, yaml]
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
xpack.security.authc.realms.oidc.oidc1:
  rp.client_id: "the_client_id"
  rp.response_type: code
  rp.redirect_uri: "https://kibana.example.org:5601/api/security/v1/oidc"
  op.authorization_endpoint: "https://op.example.org/oauth2/v1/authorize"
  op.token_endpoint: "https://op.example.org/oauth2/v1/token"
  op.userinfo_endpoint: "https://op.example.org/oauth2/v1/userinfo"
  op.endsession_endpoint: "https://op.example.org/oauth2/v1/logout"
  op.issuer: "https://op.example.org"
  op.jwkset_path: oidc/jwkset.json
  claims.principal: email_verified
  claim_patterns.principal: "^([^@]+)@staff\\.example\\.com$"
-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In this case, the user's `principal` is mapped from the `email_verified` claim, but a
regular expression is applied to the value before it is assigned to the user.

> If the regular expression matches, then the result of the first group is used as

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the regular expression matches, then the result of the first group is used as the
```

mapping fails.

In this example, the email address must belong to the `staff.example.com` domain,
and then the local-part (anything before the `@`) is used as the principal.
Any users who try to login using a different email domain will fail because the
regular expression will not match against their email address, and thus their
principal user property - which is mandatory - will not be populated.

IMPORTANT: Small mistakes in these regular expressions can have significant
security consequences. For example, if we accidentally left off the trailing
`$` from the example above, then we would match any email address where the
domain starts with `staff.example.com`, and this would accept an email
address such as `admin@staff.example.com.attacker.net`. It is important that
you make sure your regular expressions are as precise as possible so that
you do not inadvertently open an avenue for user impersonation attacks.

> 

Reviewer 3: 👍

[[third-party-login]]

> ==== Third Party Initiated Single Sign On

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
==== Third party initiated single sign-on
```

The Open ID Connect realm in {es} supports 3rd party initiated login as described in the

> https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#ThirdPartyInitiatedLogin[relevant specification]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#ThirdPartyInitiatedLogin[relevant specification].
```

> This allows the OP itself or another, third party other than the RP, to initiate the authentication

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This type of sign-on enables the OP or another third party other than the RP to initiate the authentication
```

> process while requesting the OP to be used for the authentication. Please note that the Elastic

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
process but uses the OP for the authentication. Please note that the Elastic
```

> Stack RP should already be configured for this OP, in order for this process to succeed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the {stack} RP must already be configured for this OP.
```

[[oidc-logout]]
==== OpenID Connect Logout

The OpenID Connect realm in {es} supports RP-Initiated Logout Functionality as
described in the
https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-session-1_0.html#RPLogout[relevant part of the specification]

In this process, the OpenID Connect RP (the Elastic Stack in this case) will redirect the user's
browser to predefined URL of the OP after successfully completing a local logout. The OP can then
logout the user also, depending on the configuration, and should finally redirect the user back to the
RP. The `op.endsession_endpoint` in the realm configuration determines the URL in the OP that the browser

> will be redirected and the `rp.post_logout_redirect_uri` setting determines the URL to redirect back

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
will be redirected to. The `rp.post_logout_redirect_uri` setting determines the URL to redirect
```

> the user after OP logs them out.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the user back to after the OP logs them out.
```

When configuring `rp.post_logout_redirect_uri`, care should be taken to not point this to a URL that
will trigger re-authentication of the user. For instance, when using OpenID Connect to support

> Single Sign On to {kib}, this could be set to +$\{kibana-url}/logged_out+ that will show a user

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
single sign-on to {kib}, this could be set to +$\{kibana-url}/logged_out+,  which will show a user-
```

[[oidc-role-mapping]]
=== Configuring role mappings

When a user authenticates using OpenID Connect, they are identified to the Elastic Stack,
but this does not automatically grant them access to perform any actions or
access any data.

Your OpenID Connect users cannot do anything until they are assigned roles. This can be done
through either the
{ref}/security-api-put-role-mapping.html[add role mapping API], or with
<<authorization_realms, authorization realms>>.

NOTE: You cannot use {stack-ov}/mapping-roles.html#mapping-roles-file[role mapping files]
to grant roles to users authenticating via OpenID Connect.

This is an example of a simple role mapping that grants the `kibana_user` role

> to any user who authenticates against the `oidc1` OpenID Conenct realm:

Reviewer 3: s/Conenct/Connect/

via the `oidc1` realm with the `finance-team` group membership.

[source,js]
--------------------------------------------------
PUT /_security/role_mapping/oidc-finance
{
  "roles": [ "finance_data" ],
  "enabled": true,
  "rules": { "all": [
        { "field": { "realm.name": "oidc1" } },
        { "field": { "groups": "finance-team" } }
  ] }
}
--------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST

If your users also exist in a repository that can be directly accessed by {es}
(such as an LDAP directory) then you can use
<<authorization_realms, authorization realms>> instead of role mappings.

In this case, you perform the following steps:
1. In your OpenID Connect realm, assign a claim to act as the lookup userid,
   by configuring the `claims.principal` setting.
2. Create a new realm that can lookup users from your local repository (e.g. an
   `ldap` realm)
3. In your OpenID Connect realm, set `authorization_realms` to the name of the realm you
   created in step 2.

[[oidc-user-metadata]]
=== User metadata

By default users who authenticate via OpenID Connect will have some additional metadata

> fields. These  will include every OpenID Claim that is provided in the authentication response

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
fields. These fields will include every OpenID Claim that is provided in the authentication response
```

> (regardless of whether it is mapped to an {es} user property), will be added

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(regardless of whether it is mapped to an {es} user property). For example,
```

> as the metadata field `oidc(claim_name)` where "claim_name" is the name of the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
in the metadata field `oidc(claim_name)`, "claim_name" is the name of the
```

include all the https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#IDToken[ID Token claims]
that pertain to the authentication event, rather than the user themselves.

> 

Reviewer 3: nit: extra line

in addition to the standard {kib} security configuration. The
{kibana-ref}/using-kibana-with-security.html[{kib} security documentation]
provides details on the available configuration options that you can apply.

In particular, since your {es} nodes have been configured to use TLS on the HTTP
interface, you must configure {kib} to use a `https` URL to connect to {es}, and
you may need to configure `elasticsearch.ssl.certificateAuthorities` to trust
the certificates that {es} has been configured to use.

OpenID Connect authentication in {kib} is also subject to the
`xpack.security.sessionTimeout` setting that is described in the {kib} security
documentation, and you may wish to adjust this timeout to meet your local needs.

The three additional settings that are required for OpenID Connect support are shown below:

[source, yaml]
------------------------------------------------------------
xpack.security.authProviders: [oidc]
xpack.security.auth.oidc.realm: "oidc1"
server.xsrf.whitelist: [/api/security/v1/oidc]
------------------------------------------------------------

The configuration values used in the example above are:

`xpack.security.authProviders`::

> Set this to `[ oidc ]` to instruct {kib} to use OpenID Connect Single Sign On as the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Set this to `[ oidc ]` to instruct {kib} to use OpenID Connect SSO as the
```

> authentication method. This instructs kibana to attempt and initiate an SSO flow

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
authentication method. This instructs Kibana to attempt to initiate an SSO flow
```

everytime a user attempts to access a URL in Kibana, if the user is not already

> authenticated. If you wish to allow users to login with a username and password

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
authenticated. If you also want to allow users to login with a username and password
```

> also, then you'd need to enable the `basic` authProvider too by setting

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
you must enable the `basic` authProvider too. For example:
```

[source, yaml]
------------------------------------------------------------
xpack.security.authProviders: [oidc, basic]
------------------------------------------------------------

This will allow users that haven't already authenticated with OpenID Connect to
navigate directly to the `/login` page in {kib} in order to use the login form.

`xpack.security.auth.oidc.realm`::
The name of the OpenID Connect realm in {es} that should handle authentication
for this Kibana instance.

`server.xsrf.whitelist`::

> {kib} has in-built protection against _Cross Site Request Forgery_ attacks which

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{kib} has in-built protection against _Cross Site Request Forgery_ attacks, which
```

> are designed to prevent the {kib} server from processing requests that

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
is designed to prevent the {kib} server from processing requests that
```

originated from outside the {kib} application.
In order to support OpenID Connect messages that originate from your
OP or a third party (see <<third-party-login>>, we need to explicitly _whitelist_ the
OpenID Connect authentication endpoint within {kib}, so that the {kib} server will
not reject these external messages.

=== OpenID Connect without {kib}

The OpenID Connect realm is designed to allow users to authenticate to {kib} and as
such, most of the parts of the guide above make the assumption that {kib} is used.
This section describes how a custom web application could use the relevant OpenID
Connect REST APIs in order to authenticate the users to {es}, with OpenID Connect.

> Single Sign On realms such as OpenID Connect and SAML make use of the Token Service in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Single sign-on realms such as OpenID Connect and SAML make use of the Token Service in
```

{es} and in principle exchange a SAML or OpenID Connect Authentication response for

> an {es} access token to be used as credentials for subsequent calls to {es} and a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
an {es} access token and a refresh token. The access token is used as credentials for subsequent calls to {es} and the
```

> refresh token allowing to get new {es} access tokens for the user once the current one

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
refresh token enables the user to get new {es} access tokens after the current one
```

expires.

NOTE: The {es} Token Service can be seen as a minimal oAuth2 authorization server
and the access token and refresh token mentioned above are tokens that pertain

> _only_ to this authorization server, are generated and consumed _only_ by {es}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
_only_ to this authorization server. They are generated and consumed _only_ by {es}
```

and are in no way related to the tokens ( access token and ID Token ) that the
OpenID Connect Provider issues.

==== Register the RP with an OpenID Connect Provider

The Relying Party ( {es} and the custom web app ) will need to be registered as

> client with the OpenID Connect Provider. Note that when registering the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
clients with the OpenID Connect Provider. Note that when registering the
```

Author: it is actually one client

Reviewer 2: OK! I've updated my suggestion

`Redirect URI`, it needs to be a URL in the custom web app.

==== OpenID Connect Realm

> As before, an OpenID Connect realm needs to be created and configured accordingly

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An OpenID Connect realm needs to be created and configured accordingly
```

in {es}. See <<oidc-guide-authentication>>

==== Service Account user for accessing the APIs

The realm is designed with the assumption that there needs to be a privileged entity
acting as an authentication proxy. In this case, the custom web application is the
authentication proxy handling the authentication of end users ( more correctly,
"delegating" the authentication to the OpenID Connect Provider ). The OpenID Connect
APIs require authentication and the necessary authorization level for the authenticated
user. For this reason, a Service Account user needs to be created and assigned a role

> that gives them the `manage_oidc` cluster privilege. The use of the `manage_token`

Reviewer 2: Does this cluster privilege need to be added to https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/elastic-stack-overview/master/security-privileges.html ?

Reviewer 2: Thanks, I created https://github.com/elastic/stack-docs/pull/334

  where the user's browser was redirected to, as a parameter, along with the
  values for `nonce` and `state` it had saved in the user's session previously.
  See {ref}/security-api-oidc-authenticate.html[OIDC Authenticate API] for more details
+
[source,js]
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
POST /_security/oidc/authenticate
{
  "redirect_uri" : "https://oidc-kibana.elastic.co:5603/api/security/v1/oidc?code=jtI3Ntt8v3_XvcLzCFGq&state=4dbrihtIAt3wBTwo6DxK-vdk-sSyDBV8Yf0AjdkdT5I",
  "state" : "4dbrihtIAt3wBTwo6DxK-vdk-sSyDBV8Yf0AjdkdT5I",
  "nonce" : "WaBPH0KqPVdG5HHdSxPRjfoZbXMCicm5v1OiAj0DUFM"
}
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
// CONSOLE
// TEST[catch:unauthorized]
+
Elasticsearch will validate this and if all is correct will respond with an access token that can be used
  as a `Bearer` token for subsequent requests and a refresh token that can be later used to refresh the given
  access token as described in {ref}/security-api-get-token.html[get token API].
. At some point, if necessary, the custom web application can log the user out by using the

>   {ref}/security-api-oidc-logout.html[OIDC Logout API] passing the access token and refresh token as parameters, as seen below

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  {ref}/security-api-oidc-logout.html[OIDC Logout API] passing the access token and refresh token as parameters. For example:
```
